Hi, everyone, and good morning.
I appreciate all of you coming
here because it is pretty early.
I mean,
I'm usually sleeping around that time.
So my name is Antoine.
I'll be joined during this
session by my colleague,
Chris.
We both work on a great team at Apple,
and working on implementing these
great new features that have been
talked about during the week.
And today,
we're really going to go inside the code.
It's all going to be about code,
very little about theory.
It's really just going to be
about seeing how you make all
of these new features we have in
Safari and iPhone working together.
So it's really about how can
you practically integrate all
these new great technologies
that we have for you on iPhone.
So we have CSS transforms,
which gives you hardware-accelerated
2D and now also 3D transforms
right into your browser with
no plug-in or any extra,
just strictly in your browser.
And we also have CSS transitions,
which allow you to leverage
your browser to your iPhone.
So we have a very average hardware
acceleration for animations done
implicitly by simply describing
two states and the browser taking
care of everything on its own.
And we also have touch events,
which really, you know,
the iPhone is all about multi-touch.
And you have all these functionality
now directly in the browser.
So using JavaScript events,
just like any other events
you use on a web page,
you'll be able to react to touches
and have a really responsive
and very flexible UI for your
web application on iPhone.
And finally,
we also introduced JavaScript media
APIs so that you can control the
playback of your movies on iPhone
using your own UI that you will
implement using HTML and CSS and use
JavaScript to hook up to the media
layer and play content and control it.
And all of these things are brand
new for Safari on iPhone 2.0.
So we actually start with a demo.
Today we're going to build a demo that
you might have already seen this week.
But I'm going to go
through it quickly again.
So can we switch to the phone, please?
Okay, so we load up our demos
called Fingertips,
and Apple created a lot of videos,
small tutorial videos we call Fingertips,
so that you can learn about
features of your iPhone in a minute.
And so obviously all these videos
play on the iPhone as well,
which is really great.
And we created, using all our technology,
a 3D ring where we lay
out all this content,
and you can just navigate through it.
And of course, given it's iPhone,
you really want to flick
through the content,
and we can flick at various
speeds depending on how
fast the finger's moving.
We can select an item.
get a nice little animated transitions,
find out more information
about this content.
We can go into landscape mode.
The content will
automatically change a ratio.
We can change the layout so that it's
more adapted to our content here.
We have touch event support so we can
do ratings straight onto the device,
really responsive, really fast.
And we can go back to the ring.
And as you see, with the power of CSS,
just based on the
orientation of the phone,
we can actually change the
direction of the ring and also
adapt the content we see on there.
We always have the poster frames.
We also have a bigger title.
But we don't have as much
room for a short description.
So that's all we got here.
Select an item again.
And we have movie playback on iPhone,
of course.
So we can just play a movie.
Oops.
And there it is playing straight away.
And as you'll notice,
we actually provided our
own custom UI for this.
is a great way to-- ALAIN VONGSOUVANH:
This is our own little play button.
It doesn't look like the play
button you get usually by
embedding a movie in your page.
So that is what we're
going to be building today.
So back to the slides, please.
And so just give you a quick
overview of how our web
application is going to be built.
It's actually very traditional.
So we have an HTML page, call it index.
And this page is going to have
all the markup to have the
core components of our page.
So the items in the info pane,
the ring markup, and et cetera.
And this HTML page loads up CSS,
style.css file,
which is a CSS resource where
all the CSS declarations are
going to be put in that file.
We have a main script where all the
interactivity is going to be implemented.
And finally,
we have a data source that we chose to
implement using a JavaScript structure.
But really, in this app,
you could load the data with
XML HTTP requests or any
AJAX methodology that you would like.
It is all browser-based technology.
And any workflow that you've been
using so far will work right out
of the box with all these new
technologies that we implemented.
And so we're going to build this
demo step by step so that we really
highlight in each step a very
crucial part of our technology.
So the first step will
be setting the stage.
It's actually pretty intense because
we're going to get into 3D here,
and it will be all about how you
can take a flat HTML list and
actually style it so that it's
mapped on what looks like a 3D ring.
So we're going to be
using CSS transforms here.
And the second stage will be adding
interactivity with touch events.
So using our fingers,
we'll be able to flick
through the content,
just tap and drag and release,
and that will be how we navigate.
So we'll be using touch events in
this case to add that interactivity.
The third step will be
adding the functionality to
slide inside the InfoView.
So it will really be all about
updating transforms on the fly,
all through script,
and having the changes
transition with a nice animation.
and the fourth step,
we're going to add a new behavior
to the selection so that the
ring rotates before it slides.
So we'll be looking at how you can chain
different transitions together using
events in our CSS transitions technology.
And the final step is actually just
going to be hooking up movie playback.
And once all this is done,
the demo will be complete.
And I'd like to invite my colleague,
Chris, who is really our main 3D
guy on our team and wizard,
really.
And he's going to come on stage
and demonstrate how we get
started and build the first stage.
Thanks.
Thanks, Antoine.
So Antoine showed you this really
nice web application that we're
going to be building today.
And the central component of that is
this really nice 3D ring that contains
all these elements that are going to
be the contents of the fingertips demo.
And so what I want to show you now
is how do we build that 3D ring.
3D rings, building 3D things in our
CSS properties is really easy.
It's something that allows us to position
things in three-dimensional space,
to rotate them, translate them,
scale them.
And what I want to show you first
is a little demo I put together to
show how this ring gets built up.
Could we have this monitor please?
Okay,
so I wrote this to run on the phone,
so let me show it to you
in the simulator here.
If we go to the first step,
we can see what we've got is just
the normal XY coordinate space.
This is just normal CSS coordinate space.
X goes to the right, Y goes down.
But when we're doing 3D transforms,
we add a Z transform,
which goes out of the screen toward
the viewer for positive Z values and
into the screen for negative Z values.
The first thing we add is
we have a parent element.
This is going to be the parent
of all of these items that are
going to be populating the ring.
It's going to be the thing that
we're going to be animating
as we spin the ring around.
So let me go ahead and get that spinning.
I'm spinning it about X,
which is going to spin about
the central axis of that item.
That's the default.
Rotations go about the center of
the item that you're rotating.
But you'll notice that this
doesn't really look very good.
It doesn't really look 3D.
It it really just kind of looks
like a trapezoid that's getting
smashed down and stretched out.
And that's because we don't
have perspective on it.
If you went to the really great talk on
CSS animations and transforms yesterday
that Simon Fraser and Dean Jackson gave,
you'll see that we have a lot of
different properties to support
the transform capabilities in CSS,
perspective being one of them.
Let me go ahead and add
the perspective to this.
And you can see now that
this plane looks a lot nicer.
It is foreshortened,
and so it looks further away
when it's more distant and
larger when it's closer to you.
So this gives you a lot better 3D look.
So let's go ahead then
and add an item to that.
This is going to be one of the items
that is going to be in our ring.
In the demo, it's going to be populated
with text and graphics.
In this case,
I just have something simple on
it for illustration purposes.
So the first thing... The first thing
we want to do is we want to push
this into the middle of the parent.
That allows it to rotate also
about its central x-axis.
And that's what we want.
But what we really want is for
that to be at the edge of a ring.
So the next thing we're
going to do is we're going to
push that element out in z.
So now we can see,
if we kind of spin it around,
that that item is now pushed
out in z by the distance of what
we're going to use as the radius.
But it's still rotating about that.
It's still at that central point.
And so it's rotating essentially
at the edge of a cylinder.
Next step, of course,
is just to add another item.
And you can see this item,
it's been rotated a little bit.
It's actually been rotated by 30 degrees
relative to its neighbor because we're
going to have 12 items around this ring.
So it's 1/12 of the
distance around that circle.
So if we push this one out now,
you see it ends up next to its neighbor,
which is exactly what we want.
Now, the only thing left, really,
is to add another item.
So we have the ring fully populated.
And now we have essentially what we want,
except for one little problem.
So we're going to have
to add another item.
And we're going to have
I'm a big fat liar,
and it's not actually this easy,
because I showed you a very nice 3D ring,
but this is not the default behavior.
If you saw the talk yesterday,
you saw that the default behavior
in CSS is for it to look like this.
And that doesn't look very good.
It actually is still a 3D ring.
As you can see,
the items that are more distant
are smaller and the items
that are closer are larger.
But it's flattened against its parent,
and that's the default behavior
in these new CSS properties is for
items to flatten into their parent.
Well, that's obviously not what we want,
and so we've added a new property,
which is called WebKit Transform Style.
And if we set that
Transform Style to preserve 3D,
then it takes away that
restriction of all of the elements
being on their parent plane,
and it allows them to
sit above and below it.
So that's exactly what we want.
We've got that.
Now, one last thing is you'll notice that
you can see the more distant objects,
and you'll be able to see
this more clearly when we go
to the actual application.
But that can be really distracting
to see those distant objects,
especially when there's
some nice text up there.
So what we want to do is we want to
get rid of that using another property
that is called WebKit Transform Style.
So we're going to make it so that
when the items aren't facing you,
when they're facing away from you,
they're going to disappear.
They're not going to be shown.
And so that's exactly what we want.
We have a nice ring.
And so why don't we go ahead
and build that ring right now.
Okay, so here we have in
Dashcode all of our files.
The three files that are interesting
to us are this index.html,
which is really very simple.
It's got some nice setup.
It's going to set up the viewport
so that we have a fixed window.
We're not going to be doing
any scaling because we want the
application to look exactly,
layout exactly the way we want it to.
We have some other pretty
standard setup stuff here.
And then we have this ring.
This is going to be
the parent of our app.
our content.
If we look at the style,
it's all pretty standard stuff.
We're setting up the page.
We're setting up some
pretty simple style.
Then we have a bunch of style here
for laying out each of the items.
Script also is pretty simple.
There's some initialization.
And then this main function here,
populate ring,
which is going to create each element,
populate it, add its style so that it
looks the way you want it to,
and then it's going
to add it to the ring.
And so let's look at this without
any changes and see what we've got.
And you can see all the
items are shown there,
but they're all sitting on top of
each other because we haven't moved
them into their proper place yet.
So let's go ahead and do that.
If we go here and grab some
code and drop it right here,
you can see what this is,
is it's setting the angle of each
element to go around the ring.
And then we are positioning
each element at that angle,
and we're pushing it out
by the value of its radius.
So just by adding that,
we go from a ring where
everything's sitting on top of
each other to something that looks,
starts to look like what
we want it to look like.
First thing you might notice here is
that we haven't added perspective,
and so all of the items
look like they're very flat.
And so let's go ahead and add that.
First thing we're going to do is we want
to add perspective to the parent of the
ring so that we keep the perspective
separate from the animations that
we're going to be doing on the ring.
So let's go ahead and replace
this hierarchy with one
that's just slightly bigger.
So here all we've done is
we've added a ring container.
This is the thing that we're going
to apply the new property to.
Let's actually go to the CSS.
So let's go ahead and
add the style for that.
So you can see this style is going
to set the perspective to 1,000.
1,000 is a pretty moderate
amount of perspective.
It's not going to have a
whole lot of foreshortening.
It's going to give us
about the look we want.
We're turning on Preserve 3D.
Like I said,
through the entire hierarchy,
you're going to want to have
Preserve 3D so that the items can
live on top and below their parent.
We're also here setting
WebKit perspective origin.
What that's going to do is normally
the perspective is centered at the
center of the item that it's placed on.
But since our item here doesn't
have a width or a height,
we're going to have to set it ourselves.
We're going to set it right
in the middle of the screen.
The reason we don't have a width
and a height is because we don't
want this element to interfere with
the interaction that we're going to
be doing later when Antoine shows
you how to interact with this.
And so now we've added those two things.
Let's see what we've done.
We've got -- now you can see we've
got something that looks pretty 3D.
Things in front are
bigger than things behind.
But then, of course,
we can see those things behind,
and that's not what we want.
Turn on the back face
visibility to hidden.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we've just turned on
backface visibility hidden here.
If we look now, looks the same,
except that you're not
seeing those back faces.
We're starting to look pretty close here.
And so a couple more things that you're
going to notice is that the text,
especially this text right in front,
looks pretty fuzzy.
It doesn't really look very good.
And that front item is too big.
It stretches out.
And that, of course,
is because we've pushed
it out by the radius,
and so it's closer to the viewer.
And so it's going to look larger
because of the perspective we've added.
And so what we want to do is
we want to push that back,
because that item is going to look
best if it's at the z equals 0 plane.
We've kind of laid it
out to look best there.
And so we're going to push the entire
ring back by the distance of the radius
so that the ring is still going to rotate
about the center of the ring parent,
but it's going to be pushed
back so the frontmost item
is at the z equals 0 plane.
To do that, we're going to have to,
again,
Add another layer of hierarchy
here so we have something to add.
and I will be talking
about the pushback tool.
So here, in addition to the ring
container and the ring,
we've added this thing
called ring aligner.
That's just going to be
a static transform in Z.
So let's go ahead and add that.
Sorry.
Let's try that.
So here we have a style
for the ring aligner.
It's going to also be preserved
3D so that we can make sure that
we maintain that 3D hierarchy.
And all we're going to do is
we're just going to translate
it in Z by this amount,
which happens to be our radius.
So now when we look at it one more time,
now you can see that frontmost item.
It looks sharp, it looks crisp,
and it's filling the screen just fine.
So this looks pretty
close to what we want.
There's one last thing
that I need to check out.
If you look at the ring,
you can see that in the ring
aligner and the ring container,
I added Preserve 3D, but the ring style,
which was pre-existing,
that doesn't have Preserve 3D.
It looks fine because we
haven't started animating,
but once we start animating,
it looks fine.
You'll see that all those elements
are going to be flat unless we
add a Preserve 3D to the ring,
too.
So let me do that so that
when Antoine starts animating,
everything looks good.
You can see we've added it.
We go here now.
It looks the same,
but when we animate it,
it's going to start looking a lot better.
So let's go back to
the slides real quick,
and let's summarize what we've done.
That's what we just did.
Okay, so the properties that we've
looked at is 3D transforms.
3D transforms are the basic
property that you're going to use to
position things in three dimensions.
You can position things like we did,
rotate them like we did.
You can also scale.
We didn't really have to use that today,
but that's available too.
You can also combine all
these as you've seen.
And in support of that,
we have WebKit Perspective.
We've used a WebKit Perspective
that was fairly small.
You can use some perspectives
that make things look very,
very warped or whatever kind
of look you're looking for.
We used one that's pretty moderate.
So it looks 3D, but it doesn't kind of
get in your face too much.
And then we've used
this Preserve 3D flag,
which basically allows you to
make sure that things that are
positioned in Z actually live in Z.
And it's hierarchical,
and so you can have things that are
positioned by one element in Z and then
positioned differently so that you can
animate around different armatures and
have some pretty complex 3D hierarchies.
And finally, we hid the back faces.
In a demo like this is what you want.
Sometimes you don't.
Sometimes you want to see the back faces,
but a lot of times this really helps out.
And so let's, we stepped into the code.
Let's go to the second step,
and I'll give you back to Antoine.
Thanks, Chris.
So I hope you got all that,
because it's not the easiest part.
From now on,
it's going to be a lot easier,
and we're going to do a lot
more stuff with a lot less code,
actually, because it's really the
power of what we implemented.
It's really easy for
you to get things done.
So the second step is,
like I said earlier,
we're going to add the
first bit of interactivity.
We want to be able to
drag around the ring.
And so Chris has already
done the main setup.
The ring is laid out in 3D.
Preserve 3D is preserved on the ring.
So if we change the
rotation of the whole ring,
the thing will move in 3D,
and everything will look
exactly like we intend to.
So what we really need to do now--
is we need to listen to touch events.
Like I said, in Safari on iPhone now,
we have multi-touch events straight
into your JavaScript using DOM events.
And reacting to these events,
we're going to figure out what the
delta is between each interaction
and update the rotation of the
whole ring as we drag along.
So let me tell you a little bit about
how touch events work with the DOM and
JavaScript in your web content.
So the first thing you're going to
want to do is on each of our elements,
we want to add an event listener and
start listening to the TouchStart event.
TouchStart is one of the new events
that we introduced for touch event
support in Safari and iPhone.
And this will tell us the user
has put his finger on the screen.
And at this point,
we'll want to start listening to
all the other events to have the
dragging interaction working.
You'll notice the second
argument to this function,
which is a standard
DOM function at event listener,
is an object.
And this object will conform
to a protocol from DOM events,
which is event listener protocol.
And that means that if we implement
and handle event method on this object,
all the events that we use will
be routed to that function.
So we use a single scoped method
to handle all our event handling.
So we'll look into that in more detail.
And we'll get back to the code.
So we're going to start
by having a TouchStart.
User touches the screen.
At this point, register new events for
touch move and touch end.
So touch move is when the user is
going to move around the screen
while keeping pressure on the screen.
And finally, on touch end,
we'll do some cleanup after
our interaction when the user
lifts the finger off the screen.
And all this interaction is
going to go to a single function,
which is handle event
on a controller object.
Because we implement the
right event listener protocol,
we're going to have a protocol
from DOM events specification.
So this is basically how we're
going to work all of this.
So if we get into the code-- and I'd
like to switch to a demo machine,
please-- we can get started
doing this right away.
All right.
So let me get rid of the previous
version of the code that we have,
load up the new project in Dash Code,
Okay, so we're really starting
from the same amount of code
as we had before with Chris.
So we have our JavaScript here.
We still have our HTML,
which is populated by
script like it used to be.
And the first thing we got to do,
like I said, we need to start
listening to touch events.
So while we're populating events
and setting up the transforms
for the individual items in the
ring to have the right rotation,
et cetera, we're actually going to start
We're actually going to start by adding
an event listener on each of our items.
So this is pretty much the
code that we saw on the slide.
We register an event for touch start.
We pass the ring controller
object as the object is going
to take care of the events.
And if we take a look
further down in the file,
we do have our ring
controller already set up.
Ring controller is going
to really control the whole
interactivity in our ring.
So we have a field,
a single field to track what
the current rotation is.
And that field will be updated
as we call set rotation,
which we'll call continuously
as we implement the interaction,
which will track the rotation
and also apply it to the
ring using WebKit transform.
That's what the setRetention method does.
And of course,
we implement the handleEvent method,
which is the method where all the events
are going to go to as we register them.
So what we'll do is we'll just branch
those events into separate methods
so that when we get a touch start,
we'll call it an interaction start.
Touch moves,
we'll call it an interaction move,
and so on.
So there's another thing we're
going to want to do here is,
because we're going to
implement selection later on,
I really want to track the
index of the item that will
be receiving the interaction.
So we have an index as
we go through the ring,
and this is mapped to the
data source that we have.
We'll look at that a
little bit more later.
And we'll just track that
on a custom JavaScript field
directly on the node in the DOM.
So when we will be done
with selection behavior,
we'll be able to go back and look
at that index and figure out what
was touched and know that this
is the item that was selected.
So we're done with the initial work here,
and we're all set up to
react to touch start events.
So now we really have to go into
interaction start and start writing
the code that we need to get this
dragging interaction working.
So there's a few things
we're going to do here.
First of all, we need to track some start
stage for the interaction.
So we need to start tracking where
the user touched on the screen
to get the interaction started.
So usually with mouse events,
you just go event.pageY or clientY,
depending on what information
you're interested in.
In our case,
we're dealing with touch events.
And on iPhone, we have multi-touch.
And so if the user uses three fingers,
you'll need to get various
coordinates to find the
coordinates of all those fingers.
So you now have a new
array on the event object,
which will give you access to all
of these touches individually.
So we just care about
the first touch here.
We're going to do one finger dragging.
And we're going to get pageY,
and that'll be our start
position for rotation.
We also need to track what the
current rotation was before
we started the interaction,
so that as we go along,
we can just build on top of that.
And we also need to track what
the angle difference was for our
object compared to the center,
so that we have a really
accurate rotation.
So now we're done tracking
this base information.
We want to track now the touch move
and touch end event listeners so
that we can really have callbacks
every time the user moves the finger.
However,
you notice that we do not register
the events on our item in the ring.
We're actually going to register
the events on the whole window.
And we do that because if you want to
have a good drag and drop interaction,
you want to be able to drag the
finger anywhere on the screen and
have the interaction follow along.
So even if we take the finger out of
the object that started the interaction,
we still want the ring to
keep going and rotating.
So in this case,
we add event listener on window
so that we always get events
wherever they happen on screen.
We pass this as the handler object.
So once again,
everything will go through ring
controller and the handle event method.
And finally, we set capture mode
in our event handling.
That means that the event is going
to go straight into the window.
And we'll be able to handle the
event as soon as it happens.
And you'll notice we'll be using
that in a little while just to make
sure things work very smoothly.
So now we are ready to start
listening to touch events.
But we also need to implement, of course,
what happens when a touch move comes in.
So this all happens in our
interaction move method,
which was routed from handle event.
So let's drop the code in here.
And what we're going to
do here is reminiscent of
what we did in touch start.
We need to figure out
what the current y is,
because we're going to
have to do a lot of things.
Because based on that current y,
we'll be able to subtract that to the
previous y and figure out how much
delta there was in our interaction.
So what we do here is we
take our start y angle,
and we subtract to that the new
y angle for this position so that
we're going to get the exact angle
delta between the first interaction
and the current interaction.
And once we figure out
what this angle delta is,
we just call set rotation,
subtract the new angle delta,
to the star rotation,
and that will give us our current
rotation for the whole ring.
So before we-- we're almost done here.
Technically, we'll be rotating along
as we touch along.
But the problem is we also need to
clean up when the interaction ends.
So-- oops, sorry.
At interaction end,
we really need to just remove the event
listeners that we placed dynamically.
So we don't want to listen
to touch move anymore,
and we do not want to
listen to touch end anymore.
We still want to listen to touch start,
because we'll need that to start again
when we drag in another point later on.
So we're going to keep that intact.
So at this point,
it seems like we've done all that
we need to do for our rotations.
We're ready for touch
move and touch ends,
and we're updating the
rotation as we go along.
So I'm going to touch on
this and start dragging.
Oh, so something-- that's
not exactly what I want,
because we do get a
certain amount of rotation,
but we also see the whole page panning.
[Transcript missing]
and David . It really
looks like it this time.
So that is all we need
to do for step two.
Can we switch back to the slides, please?
So let's take another look-- whoops,
sorry.
We're done with step two.
So now we're done with
the dragging interaction.
We want to be able to tap on items in
the ring and slide into the info view.
So you probably noticed that
current web applications actually
do that kind of effect on iPhone.
But they do that with really what
can be considered as a big fat hack.
They just scroll the whole view around.
And they get decent performance with it.
And in our case,
we already have WebKit Transform,
which are great
hardware-accelerated transforms,
and we also have CSS transitions.
And we really want to start
leveraging this so that we can have
smooth interaction going in and out.
And we'll be able to do that
just as many times as we please.
And it's actually going to be
pretty simple to implement.
So our goal here is we
want to detect selection.
And we're not going to use clicks,
because we want to be a
really responsive application.
So we want to use touch events
to figure out as soon as a
tap happened on our page.
And we want to be able to slide
the ring out and the info pane in,
and the opposite when we
want to get back to the ring.
And so to do that,
we're going to track touch moves to
figure out when a selection happens.
A tap is really going to be
touch start and touch end events
happening one after the other,
no touch move in between.
So we're going to be tracking touch
moves to make sure to identify
if we have a selection or not.
We're also going to want to set up
CSS transitions so that when we update
the transform of either the ring
container or the info pane container,
that we have a nicely hardware-animated
transition going on automatically.
And finally-- So we're going to be
able to update the transform of each
of those containers so they actually
get transition in and out of screen.
So let's get back into the code
and switch to the demo machine,
please.
All right, so we're going to quit this
version of the project and load
up a third step right here.
So there's a bit more code
that's already in here.
It's not that interesting,
so I thought I would spare you,
but let's go and take a quick look.
So we're going to introduce
the info pane here,
the info view, and we have all the basic
HTML for it already laid out.
So we have a back button,
we'll have an info image,
which is like the snapshot of
the movie that we'll be playing,
some metadata, a wrapper for the title,
duration, date, and the description.
All of this is going to be populated
by JavaScript in a single new
function that we introduced,
which is called update info pane.
And based on a current index
that we'll be updating,
global variable,
we'll get into the data source,
which is a simple little
JavaScript file which has little
objects in an array with title,
fields, desk, and et cetera.
Based on that,
we'll be updating all the elements in
the DOM to content from the data source.
So this is not really interesting.
I mean, that's really pretty
standard functionality.
And we have a little bit of script,
of course, to take care of all of that.
So just info title, info description,
all these are going to be laid out,
font size set, and et cetera.
So we're not going to
worry about this right now.
We have to focus on the interaction here,
because the first thing we've got
to do is we've got to figure out
if we have a selection or not.
So like I said,
we want to detect that by figuring out
if we have a touch start and a touch
end happening right one after the other.
We do not want any touch
move happening in the middle.
So to do that, we're actually going
to do a simple thing,
is that when the interaction starts,
we're going to want to...
track a new object that's going
to figure out if touchMoved
has been set to true or false.
So each time an interaction starts,
we're going to say no touchMoved so far,
we just started interaction,
so touchMoved is false.
And we also want-- because
we're going to do selection,
we want to figure out
what item we touched,
so that we can track it at the end
of a written interaction and say,
that was the item that was touched,
get to the index on it,
and figure out what item needs
to be populated in the info pane.
So we're just going to track the current
item as well in the scope of our object,
in a controller object,
and that will be just the
current target of the event.
That means the element that
was tapped into our code.
So that's it for Interaction Start.
But of course, in Interaction Move,
you probably guessed what
we're going to do here.
We're just going to update Touch Moved.
[Transcript missing]
So we can still drag around the screen,
and if we release,
nothing happens because we figured
out this is not a selection.
However, if we just tap,
we got a selection.
And we went straight into the info view.
Well, OK, it looks fine.
We have content based
on what we just touched.
Everything was updated,
and it looks pretty good.
But what happened to our transitions?
And we did update the transform,
but we need to say, well,
we need to tell the browser,
I need this transform when it
changes from a state to another
state to be transitioned with a nice,
smooth animation.
So it's probably going
to be a lot of work,
right?
I mean, if you did this in JavaScript,
you'd take a lot of code,
have to manage your own timer.
It'd be pretty tedious.
But, fortunately,
we did a lot of work for you here.
And all we've got to do is
declaratively in our CSS just say,
when this element
changes WebKit transform,
animate this change of
state during a certain time.
So let's start with our info pane.
Info pane, we're changing the transform.
It has a base transform of 320 pixels,
which makes it out of the
screen so we don't see it.
And what we're going to do here is we're
just going to add two lines of CSS.
And the two lines of CSS just say,
I want the property
WebKit transform to be animated,
and I want this to happen
across 0.5 seconds.
You can put in any old
time you want here.
So that means now every time we're
going to change the transform,
our info view is going to slide
as opposed to just snapping.
And we didn't really do anything here.
I mean, we're just changing the--
it's really about thinking
what you do on the high level.
You're just changing the value
and let the browser work the
magic to make it all happen,
animated and very smooth,
because all of this is done in the GPU.
And so we also have to do it
on the container because both
elements need to slide together.
So we'll do the exact same thing,
dragging a little bit of code,
set up WebKit transition
probability with WebKit transform,
and set up the duration
to be 0.5 seconds.
So that's probably all
we really need here.
So let's run it again
and see what happens.
I'm going to drag around.
Nothing happens.
Hit Select, and things slide in.
So we really didn't do that much
extra work to get the animation,
just a couple lines of CSS.
There's still a little
bit of work left to do.
I mean, we want to go back.
And we have an item here on screen,
but we didn't hook up
any behavior to it yet.
So going back to the script,
we have the button in our HTML,
and it's called info back button.
We had an even listener for touch end.
That means the touch was released on it.
And we want to call
go back at this point.
So Go Back is all set up for us.
We just need to do a little bit
of magic here to do the inverse of
what we just did in Item Selected.
So Item Selected is here,
which is Update WebKit Transform and
to a new Translate X.
And so here, we're just going to
do the exact opposite.
So now the ring container
is going to go back to zero.
And the info pane is going
to go back to screen width,
which means that its left will be
aligned to the right of the screen,
and essentially we won't
be seeing it anymore.
So that should be pretty simple.
Do it again.
Select an item,
and we can go in and out very easily.
And so that concludes step three.
We did a lot of work
in not that much code,
actually.
Just a little bit of script to
figure out the tech selection.
Just updating transform and a
little CSS to say we want the
animation happening on transform.
Can we jump back to the slides, please?
So to recap,
the core things we need to do is
set up CSS transitions so that the
animations happen automatically
as transform properties change.
So you want to set a base state for this.
A transition happens from
a value to a new value.
So we had translate exit to zero on
the ring container when we started.
And we also set the WebKit transition
property to WebKit transform.
And the WebKit transition
duration is 0.5 seconds.
If you got that,
any change of WebKit transform
from that point on in the
element will just animate.
And the second thing was a
beta transform from script.
So it's really cool how we define
anything in CSS declaratively,
but we still can do everything
based on JavaScript.
So any old context-related
interaction based on things
you need to evaluate in script,
you can do all that with no problem,
because you can change the
style from the JavaScript.
So in our case, that's what we do.
We just change the translate to
slide things in and out screen.
And that concludes step three.
It was really pretty straightforward.
Now we're going to want
to take it a step further.
When we transition
things to the Info View,
we kind of lost context of what
was activated in the first place.
So we tap on an item at
the top of the screen,
we go into the Info View, and we go back,
and we're not really sure
where we hit anymore,
and we lose context.
And it'd be really cool if we could just
rotate the selected item to the center
before we transition into the Info View.
And that is exactly
what we're going to do.
We're going to tap on something,
and it's going to center
the ring to center the item.
And so the key thing here is
that we want to be able to do two
transitions one after another.
First transition, rotate center.
Second transition,
do what we just did before,
slide the info view in and
the ring container out.
[Transcript missing]
So what we did here to make sure
that you always have synchronized
behaviors based on your transition
is that we added a new DOM event,
which is called WebKit Transition End.
And based on that event,
you can tell that a
transition has finished,
and you're ready to go
to do something else.
So based on that,
we're going to listen to that event,
and we're going to chain transition.
We're going to start the first
rotation through the center,
and once it's done,
slide the info view in.
And so we're going to get
back into the code here,
so I'd like to go back
to the demo machine,
please.
and hopefully we can do that
without too much trouble.
All right, so, load up first step.
As you notice, we're almost done here.
I mean, just two steps to go.
You almost have the hook.
And we already have a little bit
of code already set up for us here.
We have a new init function on the
ring controller because we're going
to need to do a new thing here.
And that thing is that we
need to set up transition and
event on our ring container.
So this function is going
to be called just once.
The same time we register
touch event handlers at the
very beginning of our code,
we now need to make sure that we
listen to WebKit transition and events.
We only need to do that once.
We don't need to do that dynamically
each time we transition in and out.
To do that, we just slide in a code,
and we just add a new
event listener on our ring,
WebKitTransitionIn,
and it's always going to go back
again to our ring controller,
which is this object in this context.
And this means that to be
able to take care of it,
we're going to need a new
case in our switch statement.
So that's pretty easy.
It looks like any other switch statement,
case WebKitTransitionIn.
And we're going to want to
call a new function called
settingSelectionTransitionDone.
So a few other changes
we made to this code.
Because the selection behavior
is going to be a bit more
complex than what we did before,
we're now going to call a new
function called perform selection,
which is empty so far.
And instead of having a
single callback on selection,
which would automatically drag
the info view straight in,
we actually want to do two things.
We want to have a callback for when the
ring starts animating to the center,
and another callback when it's done
with this and ready to actually end the
transition and go into the info view.
So we now have two functions.
We have item being selected,
which is going to be called as
soon as we get the touch-in event
and the ring starts to rotate.
And we're going to have
item selected as well,
which is called when the rotation
is done and we're good to go
for the rest of the animation.
So item selected looks
exactly like it looked before.
We have -- that's where we change
the transform of the different
containers to slide things in and out.
We already know how to do that.
But the code to populate
the info pane has been moved
to the item being selected.
We already know what's
going to be selected,
so we want to update our content
straight away so there's no delay.
All right, OK.
So you also notice that we get an
extra parameter called is immediate,
because if we hit an item that's
already in the center of the ring,
we're not going to have any rotation.
So we just want to go straight to item
selected and update the info pane.
All right,
so far we haven't really done anything.
We really need to get started
on perform selection here.
So in perform selection,
we're just going to start
another transition from script.
Sorry, what have I done here?
OK.
So in performSelection,
we want to update the
rotation of the whole ring.
So we already know how to update
the rotation of the whole ring.
We have setRotation built up for that.
We used that when we did
dragging around the ring,
which is called setRotation all the time.
Because setRotation just changes
the WebKit transform of the ring.
So what we have to do here is
we're going to figure out what
the new rotation is going to be
for the object that we selected.
So we look at the index
of the current item,
multiply it by a fraction
of the full rotation,
which is going to be based on
the number of ports that we got.
So it's really going to
be-- we've got 12 ported,
so it's going to be 30 degrees.
And that tells us that's the rotation
that we need to center that item.
[Transcript missing]
And so what we're going
to do here is just say,
rotation selection is done.
We want to go to the next
step of the transition,
which is sliding items in and out.
And that's done by our
item selected callback,
just like we used to in
the previous piece of code.
Update ring container and info container.
So it looks like we're done here.
So now, when we select,
hopefully it's going to rotate
to the center and slide to
the rest of the content.
And that works perfectly.
That's great.
So now we can drag again.
Oh dear.
Things are going south here.
I mean, the ring,
it looks like there's a delay
as we drag along the ring,
huh?
Isn't there?
So the problem here is that we did set
the transition on the whole ring here.
We did say WebCon transition
duration 0.5 second.
But when we drag along,
we do pretty much the same thing.
We update the rotation.
That means from now on,
every time we drag along the ring,
we're actually going to have rotations
going on on each change of the value.
And because the transitions have a
nice little easing animation behavior,
it's actually going to
look like there's a delay.
Because it's really changing
a bunch of animations,
like a lot of them.
Every time we change
position of the finger,
it's going to call the new transition.
And that's not what we want to do.
We want to kill transitions when we're
done with the rotation transition here.
So it's actually going to be pretty easy.
Because the way we turned on transition
by setting transition to 0.5 second,
we're just going to do the opposite
and set it back to 0 second.
So in selection transition done,
when the rotation is done,
we want to reset the behavior and not
have transitions happening anymore.
So we just set the WebKit transition
duration back to zero second.
And hopefully now we can
have a nice transition,
go into the info view, go back,
and get back to dragging our
ring with no side effect.
And that's all we need
to do for step four.
We really unleashed the power
of CSS transitions here by not
just having declarative behavior,
but also have nice little
hookups into our script.
So I'd like to go back to the slides,
please.
And just quickly recap
what we just did here.
Thank you.
So we're changing transitions.
And to do that, we just set up an even
listener to begin with,
WebKit transition end,
transition is over.
That's what we got here.
And just call code based on that
callback to do whatever it needs
to do when transition is over.
It'd be really convenient, for example,
if you want to fade something
out on your page and remove it
completely from the page to set
display none or remove it from the
tree when the transition is over.
Stuff like that really gives you control
to exactly what you want to do here.
And toggling transitions, well,
there are different ways you can do it.
You can set transition duration
like we did to a positive value
and set it back to zero to stop
transitions from happening.
You can also change WebKit transition
property to be a name of a
property like we had before,
WebKit transform,
or just be none where you don't
really need anything else going on.
And that really wraps up
what we needed for step four.
And so the last step is going
to be hooking up movie playback.
And it's actually going
to be the easiest step.
Even though it looks like
it's doing a lot of stuff,
the new JavaScript APIs we added in
Safari on iPhone makes this really easy
for you to build your custom UI and
hook up into the media layer on iPhone.
And so all we got to do here is
when we detect a touch end on the
Play button that's overlaid on the image,
just tell our movie to play.
And a movie is just going
to be an embed element.
That's what we always do on the web
to play movies so far on iPhone.
And we're going to use the
JavaScript Media APIs to just say,
well, here's the URL for this movie.
We'll load that from the data source,
and please play it now.
And so that's what we're going to
do now by getting into the code.
So I'd like to switch
back to the demo machine,
please.
close our previous projects
and go back to the last step.
So we do have a little
bit more code set up here,
namely in the HTML.
We have our play button,
which is just the image,
a nice little icon,
custom icon that we made that's going
to be overlaid on top of the image.
So the cool thing here is that even
though it's a static button here,
if you really want to get fancy,
you could have like a big
throbbing animation on your
button using CSS animation so
that it's really look alive.
And that's the kind of thing you
couldn't do with built-in controls
of movie playback in iPhone in
previous versions of Safari on iPhone.
But we're adding new features
here so we can have our own
icon to do movie playback.
And we need to have an embed
element to actually-- that will
hook up the media layer right here.
And so our embed just-- we just
give the mind type of the video
and give it a little handle movie
so that we can get to it and call
JavaScript APIs on that element later on.
So we're actually looks like we already
have a bunch of stuff ready for us to go.
So let's look at what it does now.
The ring looks the same.
If we go into the ring,
we'll have a nice little play button.
But we do have a little problem
here is that we see an icon here,
and that is because embed on
Safari on iPhone has a bunch of
default behaviors already hooked up.
So that when you just say,
here's the movie I want
to embed in my web page,
you don't need to do extra
work to provide UI controls or
anything if you don't want to.
If you just want to use
a built-in behavior,
that's fine.
But what happens here is that instead
of showing the poster frame for it
or the play button for it that the
embed element would show by default,
because there's no
SRC set up on our embed,
it actually shows an icon saying,
I can play that movie.
And we don't want to set
up an SRC attribute yet,
because that's going to
be done dynamically as we
select elements in the page.
So the first thing we're going to want
to do is make sure this doesn't show up.
We can do that really easily.
It's a bit of a trick.
Actually, in the CSS, sorry.
It's a bit of a trick,
but I feel pretty comfortable at
this time doing these kind of things,
because what we've done
so far was all so clean.
So select on the movie,
and all we're going to do is push
it to the left of the screen.
That means it's always
going to be on the page,
but it's just never going to be visible.
320 pixels out of the screen,
it's just going to be out there,
and we don't have to worry about it.
So let's read our project.
And we don't have anything
getting in our way.
So that's really cool.
So we did a little bit more
work already in the script.
Just like we hooked up touch events on
the back button in the previous step,
we do the exact same
thing on the play button.
Get a handle to it with
document.galvinbyid,
add event listener and touch end,
and call the play movie function.
So we already have Play Movie set
up for us right here.
And what we need to do here is really
just set the source of the elements
to be the new URL for the movie that
we selected and call play because
we're ready to go and we need to
just get into movie playback mode.
And so to do that,
I'm just going to drag a
little piece of code here.
And it's really three easy steps.
First step, get a pointer to the movie.
That's our embed element in our HTML.
And this is where all the
new JavaScript media APIs are
going to be exposed on.
So on this element, we'll be able to call
new API straight away.
So we get back into our data
source with the current index,
get the movie URL,
and set that URL using set URL.
That's a new function
in Safari on iPhone 2.0.
We can now dynamically change the
URL of movies right using JavaScript.
And now the URL is set,
all we want to do is
actually play the movie.
So hopefully we're done here.
At this point, we get really nervous.
I mean, what if everything goes wrong,
and as the last step,
I'll look really bad?
So hopefully,
we're going to click on there.
And you'll notice that we actually have
a little touch state here for our button.
So this was actually done simply
in CSS by having on our info
play button an active state.
And every time you're going
to touch on an element,
if you implement the active pseudo class,
you'll be able to change
properties of the element.
So in that case,
we changed the background image
to have the little button ring.
So that's actually pretty cool.
So let's try and click it again.
We have our nice touch state.
And if we release it,
we get into movie view,
and we just play a movie
straight out from the internet.
And that's all we needed to do.
We can actually play it,
which would be even better.
And once we're done,
we can just reuse the current
UI that's already exposed for us and
just get back in our presentation.
And we're done.
The code is finished now,
and we have all the features
we wanted to implement.
So can we go back to the slides, please,
so we can wrap it up?
Thanks.
Thank you.
So just to recap what we did here,
get a pointer to the movie elements,
which is an embed,
and just call setURL and play.
That's all you got to do.
There's a lot more stuff
you can do with this.
You can get events when you get
in and out of full screen view.
You can detect when a movie is done
playing so that you can play another one.
You can do playlists like that.
I mean,
there's a lot of stuff you can do.
I mean, you have to go and dig into that
because it's just fantastic.
And so to wrap things up,
what we did here is that we put
together all this cool stuff we got
for you in Safari on iPhone 2.0.
We used CSS Transform to
leave the ring out in 3D.
Obviously,
this is a first in any kind of web
content strictly based on web standards.
And that's coming first
on Safari on iPhone 2.0.
And we used Touch Event as well.
Obviously, an innovation, again,
of iPhone because we're the only device
which has this great multi-touch display,
and that's what gives you the
opportunity to create those really
advanced interactions in a web app.
And the third stage,
we're adding CSS transitions to
automatically have a state-based,
hardware-accelerated animation
going from one state to the
other to slide things in and out.
And the fourth step,
we took that thing further and
add the advanced support for
CSS transitions to actually change
transitions based on events.
And that was really just fantastic.
And finally, we just played movies using
JavaScript media APIs.
And once again, all of this stuff is new
in Safari on iPhone 2.0.
So looking forward,
we have actually a bit more features
implemented in the main demo that
we saw at the very beginning.
And all that code is actually
going to be available to you.
I'll give you the URL in a minute.
So you'll be able to actually get
the code we've just done here and
actually add all these great features
if you're really feeling adventurous
and feel you have a knack for it all.
So we had a selection highlight.
When you tap on something,
it had a little blue background.
That's really pretty easy.
You just change the background
color of the items in the ring.
There's really nothing fancy here.
Landscape mode, again, is pretty easy.
You just listen to orientation
change events in your script.
You can just change the CSS properties
for the ring to change from a
vertical ring to a horizontal ring.
Just relay out your items.
And we actually did this all in CSS by
just applying different selectors.
We also had really great flicking.
So that was actually a bit too
much for this session because we
didn't have time to put it all in.
But using CSS animations,
which are different from transition
because you have key frames and you can
really specify what the animation does,
you can just flick, lift your finger,
and just let the ring animate
based on the interaction
data that you just recorded.
And we also had great things with
selecting a rating with touch events.
So it's pretty obvious,
and it's really the same kind
of interaction that we did
in the ring where you want to
track touch moves and et cetera.
And we also have really advanced hit
testing in our demo because we had really
drop shadows on top of the ring at the
bottom and the top so that we can really
have more depth to our presentation.
And because we have
stuff on top of the ring,
we don't get even straight into the ring.
We get it on other elements.
So to figure out what we hit,
we actually have our own custom hit
testing based on the 2D point APIs that
we get from the touch events and map them
out to the 3D content in the ring because
we have special point conversion APIs.
And so the code for this is all
available for you right now for free
on the developer.apple.com website,
the attendee site for WWDC.
So I'll let you take a minute
to actually write this down.
And if you navigate to the session 391,
which is our session,
you'll get the code link straight from
here as well as a lot of documents.
So if you want to get the code,
you can get it from here.
And we have documentation for all
the technology that's relevant
to our presentation here.
So developer.apple.com/wwdc/attendee.
And so I really hope
you can take this home,
look at it,
review all the code we've done.
You can download the podcast
later on and just get a good
feel of how everything was done.
For more information,
we have great evangelists.
We have Vicky, who really helped us come
up with this session.
Mark Malone as well.
Contact these people if you need any
help with this or want to find out more.
And we have a coming session.
We have debugging websites using
Safari's integrated developer tools,
where you can find out how you
can do these kind of things and go
into bugs and actually solve them,
because it's not always that easy.
And also, it's a great session about
improving responsiveness of
websites and web applications,
where we'll be focusing on performance.
And there were other sessions
this week that already passed,
but you really want to check
those out when the podcasts come
out on iTunes and download them.
And if you missed any of this,
you can go back to the fundamentals
of what we talked about today.
And there's a great live this afternoon
directly related to this session,
so I hope you can come and
stump us with great questions.
All the team will be here-- Simon, Chris,
Dean, myself, Barry, and our manager,
Gilles.
So come around and just ask us
anything you want to know to make
this happen in your own application.
And we're a bit short of time,
but I think we can
open the floor for Q&A.
Thanks.
Just didn't have time to go.
Gilles, do you still want to do it?
What if you were here?
So actually we have a last demo.
Because we had some
technical difficulties at
the beginning of the week,
there's a demo that we couldn't do at
a Grifix in Media State of the Union,
which is actually pretty amazing.
I mean,
it's just a lot of work put into it,
and it's fantastic.
So if you can go back to the phone here,
please.
And Chris will show it to you right now.
There we go.
Okay, so we love 3D.
3D is such a fun thing to
put into Safari on iPhone.
And so we wanted to see
how far we could push it.
You know, rings, that's fine.
Practical UIs, that's great.
But we wanted to see how
far we could take it,
so we went and did a little demo here.
This is a map of the world.
You might notice that it's,
you can kind of see them.
It's actually made up of
a bunch of little tiles.
These are just background images.
And they just make a nice
flat map of the earth.
But of course, if we work at it,
since we have CSS, transitions,
transforms, we can reshape those tiles
into a very nice looking globe.
And in fact, we can style --
We can add some nice shadowing
so it looks a lot better.
And then we can add,
these are just little pop-ups
that have some straight HTML,
CSS formatted information.
And it's just, you know,
where people went,
where people have been,
what they've been doing.
We can have that or we can also
touch down and we can have direct
interaction with this globe.
We can flick the globe
and have it spin around.
We can look all over the place, you know,
see where different people were.
And then we can let go and we can
let it go back into its automatic
mode and see where other people were.
We can also go to one particular
little information pop-up here.
And what it is, is this is Peter.
He actually was in New York.
He actually was in New York and he sent
us a little video that we can show.
You might have seen this already,
so I won't go through the whole thing,
but it's a very fun little short video.
And also, we can look at some pictures.
This is another thing
that we put together.
You've probably seen this in other
sessions this week because it's very
cool and a lot of people really enjoy it.
Basically, what it is is it looks like
just a regular picture,
but what it actually is is a panorama.
It's actually six images
put together in a box,
in a cube, just using CSS transforms and
transitions to do the spinning.
And it allows you to
look in all directions.
You can actually go and grab a lot of
different panoramas that are cube-mapped,
six different images,
and apply these and use any one you want.
And so this is something that we
put together just to kind of show
how far we could go with the 3D,
and that's what I wanted to show you.